# Shadow-Wizard-Programming

#Summarize the project and what problem it was solving.
>The project was to create a calculator for investment interest earnings and display a report. It was designed to read required data from the user and generate a report based on those inputs with and without monthly deposits. It would read data and generate a report, then prompt the user to enter data for another report or terminate the program.

#What did you do particularly well?
>What I did particularly well was in-line comments to guide the reader through the code. It's important to do this as a coder so that others have an easier time understanding your code. Additionally, you as the programmer will have an easier time remembering how your own code works. I used to only write simple comments that summarize blocks of code to the reader, but it's better to be thorough.
>I also feel I did well at user input validation. Input validation is important, and it may be hard to fully test as the developer of code. Users may enter any type of input you wouldn't expect while testing your own code because you know what inputs you need for the code to run as intended. That's why you need extensive input validation when reading from the user to cover as many input errors as possible that can affect how the code executes.
  
#Where could you enhance your code? How would these improvements make your code more efficient, secure, and so on?
>One way the code could be improved is more refactoring. There are various ways to trim redundant code after the fact. For example, something simple like the header of the reports can be condensed to its own function that passes a value to determine if it prints, "with Monthly Deposits" or "without Monthly Deposits" for the reports. This helps make a program even more organized and saves time on repeating code that can be put in their own functions.
    
#Which pieces of the code did you find most challenging to write, and how did you overcome this? What tools or resources are you adding to your support network?
>The most challenging part of the code for me was getting the calculations to work properly while using objects. I just had a hard time using and updating the correct variables in the formulas to calculate compound interest at first. I overcame this through taking a step back and outlining exactly how I was using my class members to output data in the report. That way, I realized I was using the variables for earned interest incorrectly in the calculations. It reinforces the importance of planning and outlining your code since you'll find solutions that you wouldn't of while trying to write it as you go. It also saves time when bugs occur.
  
#What skills from this project will be particularly transferable to other projects or course work?
>A valuable skill from this I got was extensive use of objects. I have done object-oriented programs before, but all of them were very simple programs that didn't have a real-world application like this that I had to code from scratch. And of the objects I did use before, all of them were within the same file, so this is also the first time I've made a multi-file program on my own. Getting more experience with object-oriented programming is fundamental to professional coding that I'll use in the future. 
    
#How did you make this program maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
>I used general best practice to improve the code. I've pointed out the use of in-line comments that make it readable, but I also formatted spaces between blocks of code as individual steps of the program. For example, I formatted reading annual interest from the user to read as a chunk of code that validates user input and then sets the objects interest rate. I do this so that lines of code don't look like one continuous sequence that could be hard to follow through the steps of. I also used functions for separate processes when possible, such as a separate function for the user interface and one that calls the class members to print the reports.
